Add shader guide (#17)
kasenvr/athena-docs-sphinx: docs/source/create/materials/procedural-shaders.rst

#########################################
Procedural Shaders for Models and Avatars
#########################################

> You can combine shaders with material entities on shape and zone entities to apply shaders to models and avatars. This feature is currently an **experimental feature** and is under community testing. If you wish to try applying procedural materials to models or avatars *at your own risk*, read on for more information.

Reviewer: I think this section needs to be clarified

When exploring shaders online, you may have come across many shader examples. Or you might have seen websites and applications that allow you to experiment with shader code in a live environment. Most of the code from these sources will not work with Project Athena without modification.

The first thing to be aware of is that there are a few shader languages. GLSL is one that is used by OpenGL, and Project Athena’s shaders are based on this language. Another common one is HLSL, which is used often for DirectX programs. Although these languages share a lot of similarities, you cannot use HLSL code in an OpenGL application without modification.

Another consideration is that Project Athena does not expose the full range of what GLSL offers to scripters. Instead, users are offered a subset of GLSL, and a custom set of naming conventions for fragment or vertex components.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Basic Method for Using Shaders
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Shaders are stored as a file. Fragment shaders will typically have the file extension ***.fs** or ***.frag** and vertex shaders will usually have the ***.vs** or ***.vert** file extension.

> Although you can associate these files with most entities, the original author of Project Athena’s end user shader implementation viewed material entities as the ideal way to apply them to other entities. As a result, this documentation will focus on using shaders with material entities.

Reviewer: “associate these files with most entities” doesn’t make sense

If you are unfamiliar with material entities, you can find more information `here <https://docs.projectathena.dev/create/entities/material-entity.html>`_.

Material entities have data that is stored in the JSON format, and they have a property that is called ``materialData``. The ``materialData`` property will require model and procedural fields. Here is an example::

    {
        "materials": [{
            "model": "hifi_shader_simple",
            "procedural": {
              "version": 3,

>               "fragmentShaderURL": "https://gist.githubusercontent.com/MarcusLlewellyn/2726885d4cc8be086a6755f05fbd99ff/raw/rotatecube.fs"

Reviewer: need to replace this with a real v3 shader, ideally in our repo

    			}
    		}
    	})
    });
    
You must specify the material "model" as ``hifi_shader_simple`` and provide a shader link. To provide a fragment shader, set ``fragmentShaderURL`` (or ``shaderUrl``). To provide a vertex shader, set ``vertexShaderURL``.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Shader Template
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you learn about shaders for other applications, the shader may have a function like ``main()`` that is run first. By contrast, Project Athena has a specific function name that must be called. Which function is used depends on which version of the shader you use.

As shaders were developed, features for them evolved a bit over time. As a result, there are several shader versions, and each version has a different call signature. **Versions 1 and 2** are the oldest, and will still work. **Versions 3 and 4** are the newest and expose more features. Version 4 provides for per-fragment positions, however it is also the most expensive. Therefore it is recommended to use Version 3 if that extra feature from Version 4 is not needed.

> The most basic template for a shader will look something like this example::

Reviewer: this example should be a v3 shader

Reviewer: also two : here

Reviewer: and elsewhere

Author: I will need a very simple example that can be used as a starting point for a v3 shader to replace that. :)

    vec3 iWorldPosition; // entity position
    mat3 iWorldOrientation; // entity orientation
    vec3 iWorldScale; // entity scale
    float iGlobalTime; // time since last shader recompilation
    float iLocalCreatedTime; // time since first shader compilation
    float iEntityTime; // time since entity creation
    int iFrameCount; // frames since last shader recompilation
    sampler2D iChannel0, iChannel1, iChannel2, iChannel3; // custom textures, if provided
    vec3 iChannelResolution[4]; // resolution of each custom texture, if provided

The following variables are defined but currently not implemented::

    const vec3 iResolution = vec3(1.0); // Resolution doesn’t make sense in the VR context
    const vec4 iMouse = vec4(0.0); // Mouse functions not enabled currently
    const float iSampleRate = 1.0; // No support for audio input
    const vec4 iChannelTime = vec4(0.0); // No support for video input

The following per-fragment uniforms are also provided in all shader versions::

    vec4 _positionMS; (equal to _position)
    vec4 _positionES; (equal to _eyePosition)
    vec3 _normalMS; (equal to _modelNormal)
    vec3 _normalWS; (equal to _normal)
    vec4 _color;

>     vec4 _texCoord01 (also split into vec2_texCoord0 and vec2 _texCoord1)

Reviewer: space after vec2 before _texCoord0

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Provided Methods, Constants, and Structs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Here is a full list of the provided methods, constants, and structs::

    float mod289(float x);
    vec2 mod289(vec2 x);
    vec3 mod289(vec3 x);
    vec4 mod289(vec4 x);
    float permute(float x);
    vec3 permute(vec3 x);
    vec4 permute(vec4 x);
    float taylorInvSqrt(float r);
    vec4 taylorInvSqrt(vec4 r);
    vec4 grad4(float j, vec4 ip);
    float F4 = 0.309016994374947451
    float snoise(vec4 v);
    float snoise(vec3 v);
    float snoise(vec2 v);
    
    // https://www.shadertoy.com/view/lsfGRr
    float hifi_hash(float n);
    float hifi_noise(in vec2 x);
    
    // https://www.shadertoy.com/view/MdX3Rr
    // https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fractional_Brownian_motion
    float hifi_fbm(in vec2 p);
    float DEFAULT_ROUGHNESS = 0.9;
    float DEFAULT_SHININESS = 10.0;
    float DEFAULT_METALLIC = 0.0;
    vec3 DEFAULT_SPECULAR = vec3(0.1);
    vec3 DEFAULT_EMISSIVE = vec3(0.0);
    float DEFAULT_OCCLUSION = 1.0;
    float DEFAULT_SCATTERING = 0.0;

>     vec3 DEFAULT_FRESNEL = DEFAULT_EMISSIVE;

Reviewer: these are already listed above

    TransformCamera getTransformCamera()
    
    // where a TransformCamera is:
    struct _TransformCamera {
        mat4 _view;
        mat4 _viewInverse;
        mat4 _projectionViewUntranslated;
        mat4 _projection;
        mat4 _projectionInverse;
        vec4 _viewport;
        vec4 _stereoInfo;
    };

    int gpu_InstanceID()
    vec3 getEyeWorldPos()
    bool cam_isStereo()
    float cam_getStereoSide()
    float isUnlitEnabled()
    float isEmissiveEnabled()
    float isLightmapEnabled()
    float isBackgroundEnabled()
    float isObscuranceEnabled()
    float isScatteringEnabled()
    float isDiffuseEnabled()
    float isSpecularEnabled()
    float isAlbedoEnabled()
    float isAmbientEnabled()
    float isDirectionalEnabled()
    float isPointEnabled()
    float isSpotEnabled()
    float isShowLightContour()
    float isWireframeEnabled()
    float isHazeEnabled()
    float isBloomEnabled()
    float isSkinningEnabled()
    float isBlendshapeEnabled()
    
Shader Version 1
----------------
::
    
    // Must implement. Always emissive, returns a single color.

>     uniform vec3 getProceduralColor()

Reviewer: remove uniform

        vec3 emissive;
        float alpha;
        float roughness;
        float metallic;
        float occlusion;
        float scattering;
    };

The method can optionally set any of the values in the struct to affect the output.
The return value is ``emissiveAmount``. If the returned value is greater than ``0``, the object will be treated as emissive.

Shader Version 4
----------------
::

    // Must implement. 
    float getProceduralFragmentWithPosition(inout ProceduralFragmentWithPosition proceduralData)

``ProceduralFragmentWithPosition`` **struct**::

    struct ProceduralFragmentWithPosition {
        vec3 position;
        vec3 normal;
        vec3 diffuse;
        vec3 specular;
        vec3 emissive;
        float alpha;
        float roughness;
        float metallic;
        float occlusion;
        float scattering;
    };

This is the same as Shader Version 3 but with per-fragment position. By modifying position, you can modify the per-fragment depth. This allows you to create things like ray-marched geometry that depth-tests properly and is dynamically lit by light entities. The trade-off is that this version is much more expensive than Version 3.

> 

Reviewer: there’s no section on zones here, see my comment on the original issue

    Entities.addEntity({
    	type: "Material",
    	materialURL: "materialData",
    	priority: 1,
    	materialData: JSON.stringify({
    		materials: {
    			"model": "hifi_shader_simple",
    			"procedural": {
    			  	"version": 3,
    			  	"shaderUrl": "https://docs.projectathena.dev/_static/resources/Proceduralv3.fs"
    			}
    		}
    	})
    });

You must specify the material "model" as ``hifi_shader_simple`` and provide a shader link. To provide a fragment shader, set ``fragmentShaderURL`` (or ``shaderUrl``). To provide a vertex shader, set ``vertexShaderURL``.

To set the materialData using the edit tools, you will want to set ``materialURL`` equal to **materialData**. Then put in the JSON.stringify'd version of the materialData as shown above into the field.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Shader Template
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you learn about shaders for other applications, the shader may have a function like ``main()`` that is run first. By contrast, Project Athena has a specific function name that must be called. Which function is used depends on which version of the shader you use.

> As shaders were developed, features for them evolved a bit over time. As a result, there are several shader versions, and each version has a different call signature. **Versions 1 and 2** are the oldest, and will still work. **Versions 3 and 4** are the newest and expose more features. Version 4 provides for per-fragment positions, however it is also the most expensive. Therefore it is recommended to use Version 3 if that extra feature from Version 4 is not needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As shaders were developed, features for them evolved a bit over time. As a result, there are several shader versions, and each version has a different call signature. **Versions 1 and 2** are the oldest, and will still work. **Versions 3 and 4** are the newest and expose more features. Version 4 provides for per-fragment positions, however it is also the most computationally expensive. Therefore it is recommended to use version 3 if that extra feature from version 4 is not needed.
```

> A shader consists of two primary pieces, **the main function** that is responsible for coloring the pixel and then any desired **helper functions** that assist in that processing logic, which will go above the main function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A shader consists of two primary pieces: **the main function** that is responsible for coloring the pixel, and any desired **helper functions** that assist in that processing logic (which must go above the main function).
```

> A basic template for a shader without helper functions will look something like this example::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A basic template for a shader without helper functions looks something like this example::
```

        float metallic;
        float occlusion;
        float scattering;
    };

The default values for some of these are::

    const float DEFAULT_ROUGHNESS = 0.9;
    const float DEFAULT_SHININESS = 10.0;
    const float DEFAULT_METALLIC = 0.0;
    const vec3 DEFAULT_SPECULAR = vec3(0.1);
    const vec3 DEFAULT_EMISSIVE = vec3(0.0);
    const float DEFAULT_OCCLUSION = 1.0;
    const float DEFAULT_SCATTERING = 0.0;
    const vec3 DEFAULT_FRESNEL = DEFAULT_EMISSIVE;

The method can optionally set any of the values in the struct to affect the output.
The return value is ``emissiveAmount``. If the returned value is greater than ``0``, the object will be treated as emissive.

Shader Version 4
----------------
::

    // Must implement.
    float getProceduralFragmentWithPosition(inout ProceduralFragmentWithPosition proceduralData)

``ProceduralFragmentWithPosition`` **struct**::

    struct ProceduralFragmentWithPosition {
        vec3 position;
        vec3 normal;
        vec3 diffuse;
        vec3 specular;
        vec3 emissive;
        float alpha;
        float roughness;
        float metallic;
        float occlusion;
        float scattering;
    };

> This is the same as Shader Version 3 but with per-fragment position. By modifying position, you can modify the per-fragment depth. This allows you to create things like ray-marched geometry that depth-tests properly and is dynamically lit by light entities. The trade-off is that this version is much more expensive than Version 3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the same as shader version 3 but with per-fragment position. By modifying position, you can modify the per-fragment depth. This allows you to create things like ray-marched geometry that depth-tests properly and is dynamically lit by light entities. The trade-off is that this version is much more computationally expensive than version 3.
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Zone Entities
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Zones operate slightly differently. They support the same global defines, but not the provided methods or constants. They also provide the following inputs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zones entities operate slightly differently. They support the same global defines but not the provided methods or constants. They also provide the following inputs:
```

::

    vec3 _normal;

>     Skybox skybox; (a struct containing vec4 color)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Skybox skybox; // a struct containing vec4 color
```

>     samplerCube cubeMap; (the skybox texture)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    samplerCube cubeMap; // the skybox texture
```

And must implement the following method, regardless of version:
::

    vec3 getSkyboxColor()

Zones also support custom uniforms and textures (currently only 2D textures).

--------------
Vertex Shaders
--------------

A vertex shader must implement::

    void getProceduralVertex(inout ProceduralVertexData proceduralData)

And will include this struct::

    struct ProceduralVertexData {
        vec4 position;
        vec4 nonSkinnedPosition; // input only
        vec3 normal;
        vec3 nonSkinnedNormal; // input only
        vec3 tangent; // input only
        vec3 nonSkinnedTangent; // input only
        vec4 color;
        vec2 texCoord0;
    };

--------------------------------------
For Both Fragment and Vertex Shaders
--------------------------------------

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Custom uniforms and textures

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom Uniforms and Textures
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Procedural materials also support up to 4 custom textures and many custom uniforms. These can be defined as follows::

    {
    	materials: {
    		"model": "hifi_shader_simple",
    		"procedural": {
    		    "version": 3,
    		    "shaderUrl": "https://docs.projectathena.dev/_static/resources/Proceduralv3.fs",
    		    "uniforms": {
    		        "_diffuse": [1, 0, 0],
    		        "_alpha": 1.0,
    		        "_emissive": [0, 0, 0],
    		        "_emissiveAmount": 0.0
    		    }
    		    "channels": ["https://mario.nintendo.com/assets/img/home/intro/mario-pose2.png", "https://www.mariowiki.com/images/thumb/e/e1/Luigi_New_Super_Mario_Bros_U_Deluxe.png/200px-Luigi_New_Super_Mario_Bros_U_Deluxe.png"]
    	    }
        }
    }

When texture URLs are provided, iChannel0 - iChannel3 will be populated, as well as iChannelResolution[0] - iChannelResolution[3].

When you provide uniforms, you must also include them at the top of your shader file, with optional defaults::

    uniform vec3 _diffuse = vec3(0.0);
    uniform float _alpha = 1.0;
    uniform vec3 _emissive = vec3(0.0);
    uniform float _emissiveAmount = 0.0;

> Supported uniform types are: ``float``, ``vec2``, ``vec3``, and ``vec4`` (multiple values are provided as arrays.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Supported uniform types are: ``float``, ``vec2``, ``vec3``, and ``vec4``. (Multiple values are provided as arrays.)
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Alpha Effects (Transparency)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Shaders that make use of the ``proceduralData.alpha`` value won’t display alpha on their own. In order for a shader’s alpha to be active, the entity it is applied to must first have either its alpha property less than ``1.0``, or a material property setting opacity to less than ``1.0``.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Debugging Shaders
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The only way to debug shaders at the moment is to look at the interface’s log file. Shader compilation errors will appear in this log, and can help with locating issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The only way to debug shaders at the moment is to look at Interface’s log file. Shader compilation errors will appear in this log, and can help with locating issues.
```

            }
        }]
    }

The ``materialData`` JSON can be applied either via the Project Athena Interface’s edit tools or with a script. Here's another example::

    Entities.addEntity({
    	type: "Material",
    	materialURL: "materialData",
    	priority: 1,
    	materialData: JSON.stringify({
    		materials: {
    			"model": "hifi_shader_simple",
    			"procedural": {
    			  	"version": 3,
    			  	"shaderUrl": "https://docs.projectathena.dev/_static/resources/Proceduralv3.fs"
    			}
    		}
    	})
    });

You must specify the material "model" as ``hifi_shader_simple`` and provide a shader link. To provide a fragment shader, set ``fragmentShaderURL`` (or ``shaderUrl``). To provide a vertex shader, set ``vertexShaderURL``.

To set the materialData using the edit tools, you will want to set ``materialURL`` equal to **materialData**. Then you will want to put in the JSON.stringify'd version of the materialData into the field::

    materials: {
        "model": "hifi_shader_simple",
        "procedural": {
            "version": 3,
            "shaderUrl": "https://docs.projectathena.dev/_static/resources/Proceduralv3.fs"
        }

>     }

Reviewer: this was already explained above

        vec3 emissive;
        float alpha;
        float roughness;
        float metallic;
        float occlusion;
        float scattering;
    };

The method can optionally set any of the values in the struct to affect the output.
The return value is ``emissiveAmount``. If the returned value is greater than ``0``, the object will be treated as emissive.

Shader Version 4
----------------
::

    // Must implement.
    float getProceduralFragmentWithPosition(inout ProceduralFragmentWithPosition proceduralData)

``ProceduralFragmentWithPosition`` **struct**::

    struct ProceduralFragmentWithPosition {
        vec3 position;
        vec3 normal;
        vec3 diffuse;
        vec3 specular;
        vec3 emissive;
        float alpha;
        float roughness;
        float metallic;
        float occlusion;
        float scattering;
    };

The default values for some of these are::

    const float DEFAULT_ROUGHNESS = 0.9;
    const float DEFAULT_SHININESS = 10.0;
    const float DEFAULT_METALLIC = 0.0;
    const vec3 DEFAULT_SPECULAR = vec3(0.1);
    const vec3 DEFAULT_EMISSIVE = vec3(0.0);
    const float DEFAULT_OCCLUSION = 1.0;
    const float DEFAULT_SCATTERING = 0.0;

>     const vec3 DEFAULT_FRESNEL = DEFAULT_EMISSIVE;

Reviewer: these should probably be in the v3 section above

Another consideration is that Project Athena does not expose the full range of what GLSL offers to scripters. Instead, users are offered a subset of GLSL, and a custom set of naming conventions for fragment or vertex components.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Basic Method for Using Shaders
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Shaders' code is stored as a file. Fragment shaders will typically have the file extension ***.fs** or ***.frag** and vertex shaders will usually have the ***.vs** or ***.vert** file extension.

Shaders are applied to entities and avatars by way of attaching them to a material. That material is then attached to your entity or avatar, therefore applying the shader as intended.

If you are unfamiliar with material entities, you can find more information `here <https://docs.projectathena.dev/create/entities/material-entity.html>`_.

Material entities have data that is stored in the JSON format, and they have a property that is called ``materialData``. The ``materialData`` property will require model and procedural fields. Here is an example::

    {
        "materials": [{

>             "model": "hifi_shader_simple"

Reviewer: need a comma at end of line

            "procedural": {
            "version": 3,
            "shaderUrl": "https://docs.projectathena.dev/_static/resources/Proceduralv3.fs"
            }
        }]
    }

The ``materialData`` JSON can be applied either via the Project Athena Interface’s edit tools or with a script. Here's another example::

    Entities.addEntity({
    	type: "Material",
    	materialURL: "materialData",
    	priority: 1,
    	materialData: JSON.stringify({
    		materials: {

>     			"model": "hifi_shader_simple"

Reviewer: need a comma at end of line

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Shader Template
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you learn about shaders for other applications, the shader may have a function like ``main()`` that is run first. By contrast, Project Athena has a specific function name that must be called. Which function is used depends on which version of the shader you use.

As shaders were developed, features for them evolved a bit over time. As a result, there are several shader versions, and each version has a different call signature. **Versions 1 and 2** are the oldest, and will still work. **Versions 3 and 4** are the newest and expose more features. Version 4 provides for per-fragment positions, however it is also the most expensive. Therefore it is recommended to use Version 3 if that extra feature from Version 4 is not needed.

A basic template for a shader will look something like this example::

    // version 3
    float getProceduralFragment(inout ProceduralFragment data) {
        data.diffuse = vec3(0);
        data.occlusion = 0;
        data.roughness = 1;
        data.emissive = _positionMS.xyz;
        return 0; // "emissiveAmount", either <=0 or >0, suggest return 0 and use data.emissive
    }

> The function ``getProceduralFragmentWithPosition()`` is the default main entry point for the fragment shader. Because shaders are always read by their compiler from top to bottom, this function must always be the last one in your shader code.

Reviewer: most of this paragraph and the next are already covered below (also they refer to v4 things but the example is v3)

Author: https://docs.projectathena.dev/staging/html/create/materials/procedural-shaders.html#shader-template Here is the revision.

This function also has the parameter ``ProceduralFragmentWithPosition``. This parameter is a data structure that contains entries that correspond to the usual Project Athena materials. The structure is described below::

    struct ProceduralFragmentWithPosition {
        vec3 position; // world space position
        vec3 normal; // world space normal
        vec3 diffuse;
        vec3 specular;
        vec3 emissive;
        float alpha;
        float roughness;
        float metallic;
        float occlusion;
        float scattering;
    };

The default values for some of these are::

    const float DEFAULT_ROUGHNESS = 0.9;
    const float DEFAULT_SHININESS = 10.0;
    const float DEFAULT_METALLIC = 0.0;
    const vec3 DEFAULT_SPECULAR = vec3(0.1);
    const vec3 DEFAULT_EMISSIVE = vec3(0.0);
    const float DEFAULT_OCCLUSION = 1.0;
    const float DEFAULT_SCATTERING = 0.0;
    const vec3 DEFAULT_FRESNEL = DEFAULT_EMISSIVE;

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Shader Examples by Version

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: I don’t think this section is necessary.  each version is already explained below.  perhaps just an examples section at the bottom of the whole page?

    mat3 iWorldOrientation; // entity orientation
    vec3 iWorldScale; // entity scale
    float iGlobalTime; // time since last shader recompilation
    float iLocalCreatedTime; // time since first shader compilation
    float iEntityTime; // time since entity creation
    int iFrameCount; // frames since last shader recompilation
    sampler2D iChannel0, iChannel1, iChannel2, iChannel3; // custom textures, if provided
    vec3 iChannelResolution[4]; // resolution of each custom texture, if provided

The following variables are defined but currently not implemented::

    const vec3 iResolution = vec3(1.0); // Resolution doesn’t make sense in the VR context
    const vec4 iMouse = vec4(0.0); // Mouse functions not enabled currently
    const float iSampleRate = 1.0; // No support for audio input
    const vec4 iChannelTime = vec4(0.0); // No support for video input

The following per-fragment uniforms are also provided in all shader versions::

    vec4 _positionMS; // position in "model space" (relative to the center of the object); (equal to _position)
    vec4 _positionES; // position in "eye space" (relative to the center of your eye); (equal to _eyePosition)

>     vec3 _normalMS; direction the current face is pointing in "model space" (without any rotations); (equal to _modelNormal)

Reviewer: missing // for comment

^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Zone Entities
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Zones operate slightly differently. They support the same global defines, but not the provided methods or constants. They also provide the following inputs:
::

    vec3 _normal;
    Skybox skybox; (a struct containing vec4 color)
    samplerCube cubeMap; (the skybox texture)

And must implement the following method, regardless of version:
::

    vec3 getSkyboxColor()

Zones also support custom uniforms and textures (currently only 2D textures).

--------------
Vertex Shaders
--------------

A vertex shader must implement::

    void getProceduralVertex(inout ProceduralVertexData proceduralData)

And will include this struct::

    struct ProceduralVertexData {
        vec4 position;
        vec4 nonSkinnedPosition; // input only
        vec3 normal;
        vec3 nonSkinnedNormal; // input only
        vec3 tangent; // input only
        vec3 nonSkinnedTangent; // input only
        vec4 color;
        vec2 texCoord0;
    };

--------------------------------------

> For Both Procedural and Vertex Shaders

Reviewer: for both fragment and vertex shaders

        float scattering;
    };

This is the same as shader version 3 but with per-fragment position. By modifying position, you can modify the per-fragment depth. This allows you to create things like ray-marched geometry that depth-tests properly and is dynamically lit by light entities. The trade-off is that this version is much more computationally expensive than version 3.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Zone Entities
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Zones entities operate slightly differently. They support the same global defines but not the provided methods or constants. They also provide the following inputs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zone entities operate slightly differently. They support the same global defines but not the provided methods or constants. They also provide the following inputs:
```
